- Twelve-Factor applications have to be designed
and built to be disposable.
An application should be able to handle constantly
being started and stopped at a moment's notice.
Before we get too deep into this factor,
let's talk a little bit
about why disposability is so critical.
One reason, that isn't often mentioned,
but is very near and dear to my heart, is security.
It actually is a pattern in the security world
to build processes and applications
that have very short lives in order to minimize the impact
of an application instance being compromised.
Another reason disposability is so critical,
is the scalability of an application.
A process that starts fast and shuts down fast allows
for an environment with auto-scalable application instances.
The benefit of such a model, is that under higher load,
the container can add more instances dynamically,
and then as load decreases, it can scale them back down.
This allows you to serve the user needs
without major slowdowns while also providing
for reduced costs by preventing waste and resources.
Finally, this factor is important because crashes happen.
By building your applications to be easily shutdown
and started up, it makes your overall system
more fault tolerant.
So let's talk about how to achieve the promises
of this factor.
The first aspect of a disposable process
is fast start up times.
Your application design needs
to take into account everything that has
to be done during start up, and focus on ways
to make them happen as quickly as possible,
often with parallel tasks.
In addition, you need to focus
on what isn't needed immediately when a process starts up,
and move it out of the start up routine.
By moving these tasks to slightly later in the life cycle,
your application can start listening for requests sooner.
The second design aspect
is handling shutdowns appropriately.
Your application should be designed,
that when a shutdown request comes in,
it's handled gracefully.
This can include refusing new connections to the application
while it finishes processing existing ones.
It can also include storing appropriate data
to the data store or cache,
so that other processes can pick that information up.
This graceful shutdown model
should also be used whenever possible in crash scenarios.
Moving a legacy application to cloud-native
with this factor can be fairly straightforward.
I don't want to sound like a broken record,
but there are frameworks like Spring Boot
and Node modules available to handle much of what we need
to do in order to make this factor a reality
while converting these legacy applications.
At the very least,
you need to ensure that you have a clean start up routine,
following the patterns I've previously mentioned.
In addition, you need
to ensure you have you have really good error handling
and crash protection,
so that you can clean up your application,
before it goes out of scope.